# **The Data Sharing Agreement**

This Agreement (Agreement) is a license and is made and entered into by
and between the Licensor (CITY) and the Licensee (CONTRACTOR.)

## **1.  DEFINITIONS**

A.  **Licensed Material** refers to the any form of data the CITY
provides, including digital geospatial data, attribute data, and digital
images. Licensed Material may be copied to CD-ROM or digital media,
distributed via ftp sites, or in whatever manner the CITY and the
CONTRACTOR agree to in this Agreement. Licensed Material may also refer
to access, granted by the CITY to the CONTRACTOR, to software,
databases, or other information.

B.  **Internal Use** refers to the use of the Licensed Material to meet
the business needs of Licensee. Examples of uses may include the
production of printed maps, the production and distribution of digital
maps in PDF or other static format, the conduct of analyses, the
presentation of data on Intranet web sites, and other activities
consistent with the conduct of its lawful business activity.

C.  **Adapted Material** means material that is derived from or based
upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed Material is
translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified.

D.  **Share** means to provide material to the public, or any other
third party by any means or process in compliance with the Grant of
License or Permitted Use, such as reproduction, public display, public
performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation,
and to make material available to the public including in ways that
members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

## **2.  GRANT OF LICENSE**
##
A.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the CITY
hereby grants CONTRACTOR a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable,
non-exclusive, revocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the
Licensed Material to:

i.  reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and
ii.  produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

B.  The term of this Data Sharing Agreement is specified in Sections 4
and 6 of this agreement.

C.  Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The CITY
authorizes CONTRACTOR to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and
formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical
modifications necessary to do so. The CITY waives and/or agrees not to
assert any right or authority to forbid CONTRACTOR from making technical
modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights. Simply making
modifications authorized by this Section never produces Adapted
Material.

## **3.  LICENSE CONDITIONS**

CONTRACTOR exercise of the Data Sharing Agreement is expressly made
subject to the following conditions.

A.  **Attribution**

i.  If CONTRACTOR Shares the Licensed Material(including in modified
form), CONTRACTOR must:

a.  retain the following if it is supplied by the CITY with the Licensed
Material:

1.  identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any
others designated to receive attribution, in any 	reasonable manner
requested by the CITY (including by pseudonym if designated);

2.  a notice that refers to the The Program;

3.  a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

4.  a hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably
practicable and allowed under any further agreement between the
CONTRACTOR and CITY;

b.  indicate if CONTRACTOR modified the Licensed Material and retain an
indication of any previous modifications; and

c.  indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under the Innovation
Partnership Program, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink
to, the The Program.

ii.  CONTRACTOR may satisfy the conditions in Sections 3 in any
reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which
CONTRACTOR Shares the Licensed Material. For example, it may be
reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to
a resource that includes the required information.

iii.  If requested by the CITY, CONTRACTOR must remove any of the
information required by Sections 3to the extent reasonably practicable.
If CONTRACTOR Shares Adapted Material CONTRACTOR produces, the Adapter's
License CONTRACTOR applies must not prevent recipients of the Adapted
Material from complying with the requirements of Section 3 of this
agreement.

## **4.  USE OF LICENSED MATERIAL**

A.  **Permitted Use.** This license is granted for the sole purpose
fulfilling the agreed to scope of work (Attachment 2). If the CITY
agrees that an alteration in the Permitted Use is necessary to
adequately fulfill the scope of work, both parties may amend the the
scope of work in writing to alter the Permitted Use.

B.  **Derivative Licensed Material.** CONTRACTOR shall not use the
Licensed Material except as specifically permitted as a Permitted Use.
CONTRACTOR will establish adequate mechanisms to ensure, to the best of
CONTRACTOR’S ability, that the Licensed 	Material will be used in
full compliance with the Permitted Use and for no other 	purpose
whatsoever.  Merging or appending multiple files into a single
geospatial theme shall not alter the Permitted Use of the Licensed
Material.

C.  **Reserved Rights.** Nothing in this Agreement transfers or is
intended to transfer any rights, title, or interest CITY holds in the
Licensed Material to CONTRACTOR, other than the rights set forth herein.
CITY may license the Licensed Material covered by this license to other
users so long as such licensing does not interfere with Licensee’s
rights under this Agreement.

## **5.  DATA SECURITY**

CONTRACTOR shall employ industry best practices, both technically and
procedurally, to protect CITY data from unauthorized physical and
electronic access.  Methods employed are subject to review and approval
by CITY.

A.  **Data Uses.** Data shared with CONTRACTOR shall be limited to the
uses specifically authorized by CITY under this Data Sharing Agreement
or the Scope of Work. Under no circumstances shall CONTRACTOR collect,
share or distribute any information classified as sensitive or
confidential without the express written approval of CITY.

B.  **Confidential Data.** Data classified as Confidential may be data
that the City and CONTRACTOR must keep confidential according to various
laws or regulations, such as the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA), state or federal laws regarding the use and
storage of personal information, credit cards, social security numbers
or other confidential information.  Other data deemed Confidential may
be data that the CITY has chosen to keep closed under various Missouri
Sunshine Law exceptions.

C.  **Data Handling Requirements.** Data handling requirements may vary
depending on the classification of data shared with CONTRACTOR. However,
it is anticipated that most data shared with CONTRACTOR will involve a
mix of both Confidential Information and other information. Therefore,
whenever data elements are aggregated for collection, transmission, or
storage, the aggregate data shall be handled using the protocols that
apply to the most sensitive data element.

(IF HIPAA APPLIES TO THIS AGREEMENT, CONTRACTOR MUST EXECUTE A BUSINESS
ASSOCIATE AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY).

D.  **Network Security**

i.  **Internet Access.** Connections to CONTRACTOR computers utilizing
the Internet, whether for client access or remote administration, must
be protected using any of the following industry standard cryptographic
technologies: SSL/TLS, IPSec, SSH/SCP, PGP.

ii.  **Data Storage.** Regardless of the media employed (i.e., disk,
tape, etc.), data must be stored in an encrypted format.  Encryption
algorithms shall AES-128 or better, or Triple-DES (3-DES).  The use of
other encryption algorithms for data storage must be approved in writing
by CITY.

## **6.  MAINTENANCE OF LICENSED MATERIAL**
##
CITY shall provide Licensee with periodic updates of the Licensed
Material without charge.

## **7.  TERM AND TERMINATION**
##
A.  **Term.** This Agreement is effective as of the date of signing by
both parties, and lasts for the entire duration of the Agreement and
only the duration of the Agreement. No obligations or rights within this
Agreement may be construed as surviving the end of the Term of this
Agreement other than any term covering indemnification or disposal of
licensed material.

B.  **Termination.** This Agreement may be terminated by either party
upon 30 days written notice to the other party.

C.  **Disposal of Licensed Material.** Upon termination of this
Agreement, CONTRACTOR shall immediately discontinue use of the Licensed
Material, and either return all copies of the Licensed Material to the
CITY upon request by CITY, or destroy all copies with permission of CITY
and provide CITY with certification of such destruction.

 ## **8.  DELIVERY**
 ##
CITY shall deliver the Licensed Material to Licensee pursuant to the
following conditions:

A.  CITY shall package, ship and deliver the Licensed Material to
CONTRACTOR, or make the Licensed Material accessible to CONTRACTOR by
digital transfer technology.

B.  Dates specified for delivery of the Licensed Material shall not
apply to the extent that the delay is caused for reasons beyond CITY’S
reasonable control.

C.  CITY does not warrant that the Licensed Material will meet the needs
or expectations of CONTRACTOR, or that any defects or errors can or will
be corrected, nor does CITY make any representation or warranty as to
the accuracy of the Licensed Material, including, but not limited to,
accuracy as to annotation, dimensions, property boundaries or placement
or location of any structures or features. CITY shall use its best
efforts to ensure that the Licensed Material are delivered free of
physical defect.

## **9.  WARRANTY**
##
CITY warrants that:

A.  CITY does not warrant the accuracy of Licensed Material originating
from CITY’s records or from other sources.

B.  CONTRACTOR acknowledges that the Licensed Material provided by CITY
may contain defects or errors and that some portion of the Licensed
Material may be illegible, incomplete or unsuitable for a particular
need or intended use. CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for independently
verifying all data contained in the Licensed Material. CONTRACTOR shall
inform all parties who are lawfully permitted to use the Licensed
Material pursuant to this license of CITY’S limited warranty.

C.  CITY does not warrant that the Licensed Material will meet the needs
or expectations of CONTRACTOR, or that any defects or errors can or will
be corrected, nor does CITY make any representation or warranty as to
the accuracy of the Licensed Material, including, but not limited to,
accuracy as to annotation, dimensions, property boundaries or placement
or location of any structures or features. CITY shall use its best
efforts to ensure that the Licensed Material are delivered free of
physical defect.

## **10.  ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER**
##
CONTRACTOR shall not disclose, lease, sell, distribute, make, transfer
or assign the Licensed Material or engage in any other transaction which
has the effect of transferring the right of use or part of the Licensed
Material outside of the rights identified in this Agreement. If
distribution of the Licensed Material is allowed for in this Agreement
and CONTRACTOR distributes the Licensed Material to other parties,
CONTRACTOR shall indemnify and hold harmless CITY, against any liability
arising from CONTRACTOR’S activity under this Agreement related to the
distribution of the Licensed Material to those parties.

## **11.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY**

CITY is not liable for any activity involving the Licensed Material with
respect to the following:

A.  Lost profits, lost savings or any other indirect, incidental,
special or consequential damages, whether they are foreseeable or
unforeseeable.

B.  The fitness of the Licensed Material for a particular purpose.

C.  The installation of the Licensed Material, its use or the results
obtained.

## **12.  INDEMNIFICATION**

**Indemnification.** CONTRACTOR shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless CITY, its employees, agents and assigns from and against any
and all losses, damages, liabilities, deficiencies, actions, judgments,
interest, awards, penalties, fines, costs or expenses of whatever kind,
including reasonable attorneys' fees, the cost of enforcing any right to
indemnification hereunder and the cost of pursuing any insurance
providers, from any third-party claim against the CITY arising out of or
resulting from the CONTRACTOR’S failure to comply with any of its
obligations under this Agreement.

## **13.  MISCELLANEOUS**

A.  **APPLICABLE LAW: VENUE** This license shall be constructed and
interpreted under and pursuant to the laws of the state of Missouri and
the City of Kansas City’s Code of Ordinances. CONTRACTOR submits to
jurisdiction in Jackson County, Kansas City, Missouri.

B.  **Invalidity.** If any term or provision of this license or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall to any extent be
invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this license shall be valid
and enforced as written to the fullest extent permitted by law.

C.  **Entire Agreement.** This Agreement and the The contains the entire
agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered
hereby, and no other agreement or promise made by any party hereto,
which is not contained herein, shall be binding or valid.  If there is
any conflict between the two regarding data usage, this Agreement shall
prevail.

D.  *Amendment.* No waiver, consent, modification or change in the terms
of this Agreement shall bind either party unless in writing signed by
both parties. 
